updated ClipboardItem and Clipboard documentation and examples using … (#33262)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/clipboarditem/supports_static/index.md

---
title: "ClipboardItem: supports() static method"
short-title: supports()

> slug: Web/API/ClipboardItem/supports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: Web/API/ClipboardItem/supports_static
```

...hopefully this will fix the CI error.

page-type: web-api-static-method
browser-compat: api.ClipboardItem.supports_static
---

{{APIRef("Clipboard API")}} {{securecontext_header}}

The **`supports()`** static method of the {{domxref("ClipboardItem")}} interface indicates whether or not the given {{Glossary("MIME type")}} is supported by the clipboard.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
supports(type)
```

### Parameters

- `type`

>   - : A string representing a {{Glossary("MIME type")}}.

Reviewer 2: The spec is not quite this simple. 
- It defines [mandatory types](https://w3c.github.io/clipboard-apis/#mandatory-data-types) and [optional types](https://w3c.github.io/clipboard-apis/#optional-data-types-x).
- For the optional types it defines custom types which are prefixed with `web ` and have a second part that passes a mime-type-format check.

Given the set is small and it isn't just any MIME type, we should list them here

---
title: "ClipboardItem: supports() static method"
short-title: supports()
slug: Web/API/ClipboardItem/supports_static
page-type: web-api-static-method
browser-compat: api.ClipboardItem.supports_static
---

{{APIRef("Clipboard API")}} {{securecontext_header}}

> The **`supports()`** static method of the {{domxref("ClipboardItem")}} interface indicates whether or not the given {{Glossary("MIME type")}} is supported by the clipboard.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`supports()`** static method of the {{domxref("ClipboardItem")}} interface returns `true` if the given {{Glossary("MIME type")}} is supported by the clipboard, and `false` otherwise.

Note that the [Clipboard API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Clipboard_API) mandates support for plain text, HTML and PNG files.
The `supports()`  method will always return `true` for these MIME types, so testing them is unnecessary .

```

## Syntax

```js-nolint
supports(type)
```

### Parameters

- `type`

  - : A string, indicating the {{Glossary("MIME type")}} to test.

    These MIME types are always supported:

    - `text/plain`
    - `text/html`
    - `image/png`

    These MIME types may be supported:

    - `image/svg+xml`
    - Custom MIME-type formats starting with `"web "`.
      The custom type (without the `"web "` prefix), must have the correct formatting for a MIME type.

### Return value

`true` if the given {{Glossary("MIME type")}} is supported by the clipboard, `false` otherwise.

## Examples

### Writing an image to the clipboard

> The following example fetches an SVG image to a blob, and then writes it to the clipboard.

Reviewer 2: FYI, trivially changed supports to `"image/svg+xml"`. Using `supports()` with image/png should always return true, and is pointless if we know we're always working with PNG. So unless we update this so the example doesn't know what file and hence MIME type it is writing to clipboard in advance, this is better.
